Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
 A programming language is a vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a
  computer or computing device to perform specific tasks. The term programming language usually
  refers to high-level languages, such as BASIC, C, C++, COBOL, Java, FORTRAN, Ada, and Pascal.
  Each programming language has a unique set of keywords (words that it understands) and
  a special syntax for organizing program instructions.


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
JDK is a superset of JRE, and contains everything that is in JRE, plus tools such as the compilers
and debuggers necessary for developing applets and applications. JRE provides the libraries, the Java
Virtual Machine (JVM), and other components to run applets and applications written in the Java programming
language.

What is IDE?
An integrated development environment is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to
computer programmers for software development. An IDE normally consists of a source code editor, build automation
 tools, and a debugge

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
NetBeans.
Eclipse. ...
IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition. ...
Android Studio. ...
Enide ,,
BlueJ. ...
jEdit. ...
jGRASP.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Input Unit recieves data from the input devices such as the keyboard, mouse and any other peripherals
Memory Unit the primary memory unit (Random Access Memory(RAM)) provides fast access storage of
computer programs, data from the input devices and data to be sent to the output devices.
Arithmetic and Logic Unit (ALU) peforms the arithmetic calculations on data in memory, such as addition,
subtraction, multiplication, division and comparison.
Central Processing Unit (CPU) manages the other units by sending messages to the input unit to read data
into the memory unit, informs the ALU which data to operate on, etc.
Storage Unit stores and reads data and programs in long-term storage (e.g. harddisk drive) to be used at a later time.
Output Unit sends information from the computer to make it available outside of the computer, e.g. printer,
network device etc.



what is class?
A class, in the context of Java, are templates that are used to create objects,
and to define object data types and methods. Core properties include the data types and methods
that may be used by the object.

What is object?
In the class-based object-oriented programming paradigm, "object" refers to a particular instance of a
class where the object can be a combination of variables, functions, and data structures.

What is the entry point of an application?
In computer programming, an entry point is where control is transferred from the operating system to
 a computer program, at which place the processor enters a program or a code fragment and execution begins.

Why main is static?
In computer programming, an entry point is where control is transferred from the operating system to a computer
program, at which place the processor enters a program or a code fragment and execution begins.


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
 A: The Object class, which is stored in the java.lang package, is the ultimate superclass of all Java
 classes (except for Object ). Also, arrays extend Object .

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
1).Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables. Classpath is an
environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.ie in J2EE we give the path of
jar files. 2).PATH is nothing but setting up an environment for operating system.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
1.Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and
cannot have implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance methods that
implements a default behavior. 2.Variables declared in a Java interface is by default final.
An abstract class may contain non-final variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A class that implements an interface must implement all of the non-default methods described in the
interface, or be an abstract class. Object references in Java may be specified to be of an interface
type; in each case, they must either be null, or be bound to an object that implements the interface.


what is Access Specifier?
Access modifiers (or access specifiers) are keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of
classes, methods, and other members. Access modifiers are a specific part of programming language syntax used to
facilitate the encapsulation of components. In C++, there are only three access modifiers.




What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object-oriented programming (OOP) refers to a type of computer programming (software design) in which programmers
define not only the data type of a data structure, but also the types of operations (functions) that can be applied
to the data structure.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
java.lang package is imported by default, no need to explicitly import it. Classes in the java.lang package do not
need to be imported (the compiler acts like they are always imported).


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API stands for Application Programming Interface. An API is a software intermediary that allows two applications
to talk to each other. ... Instead, they can focus on the unique proposition of their applications while outsourcing
all of the commodity functionality to APIs

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A class can implement any number of interfaces but can extend only one class. Multiple inheritance is not supported
because it leads to deadly diamond problem. However, it can be solved but it leads to complex system so multiple
inheritance has been dropped by Java founders.


What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name,
if their argument lists are different. It is similar to constructor overloading in Java, that allows a class to
have more than one constructor having different argument lists.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Exceptions are events that occur during the execution of programs that disrupt the normal flow of instructions
(e.g. divide by zero, array access out of bound, etc.). In Java, an exception is an object that wraps an error
event that occurred within a method and contains: Information about the error including its type.


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
In Java, a static member is a member of a class that isn't associated with an instance of a class. Instead,
the member belongs to the class itself. As a result, you can access the static member without first creating a class
instance. ... The value of a static field is the same across all instances of the class.


What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
final keyword in java. ... First of all, final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable,
a method or a class.Following are different contexts where final is used. Final variables. When a variable is
declared with final keyword, it's value can't be modified,essentially, a constant.


What is final, finally and finalize?
Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used
to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected. 2) Final is a keyword.


What is a constructor?
A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created.
Here are the key differences between a constructor and a method: A constructor doesn't have a return type. ...
Unlike methods, constructors are not considered members of a class.


Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A class can have multiple constructors, as long as their signature (the parameters they take) are not the same.
You can define as many constructors as you need. When a Java class contains multiple constructors, we say that the
constructor is overloaded (comes in multiple versions)

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
In both Java and C#, a "default constructor" refers to a nullary constructor that is automatically generated
by the compiler if no constructors have been defined for the class. The default constructor implicitly calls the
superclass's nullary constructor, then executes an empty body.


What is "this" keyword in java ?
Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. ... It can be used to refer
instance variable of current class. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor. It can be
passed as an argument in the method call

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
super is a keyword. It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class.
Private methods of the super-class cannot be called. Only public and protected methods can be called by the super
keyword. It is also used by class constructors to invoke constructors of its parent class.


What is JVM stand for ?
Java virtual machine


Is JVM platform independent?
JVM is dependent on the OS you are using like Windows or Linux. Java code compiled on any platform can be executed
by any JVM. This way JVM makes java platform independent. JVM itself is platform dependent though.


What version of java are you using?
1.8

What is JAR stand for ?
Java ARchive


What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Firstly, let's see the basic differences between the JDK, JRE and JVM. JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an
abstract machine. It is a specification that provides runtime environment in which java bytecode can be
executed. ... But, Java is platform independent.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
The JRE is the environment within which the virtual machine runs. JRE is the container, JVM is the content.
Java Runtime Environment contains JVM, class libraries, and other supporting files. It does not contain any
development tools such as compiler, debugger, etc.


What is compile time and run time?
The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program. This compilation
process is referred to as compile time. A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. ... The terms "runtime"
and "compile time" are often used by programmers to refer to different types of errors.

What is heap?
Here's the definition of a Java heap, again with a few pieces removed for clarity: The Java virtual machine has a
heap that is shared among all Java virtual machine threads. The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for
all class instances and arrays is allocated.

How java manage it's memory?
Memory Management in Java – Java Garbage Collection. Java Garbage Collection is the process to identify and remove
the unused objects from the memory and free space to be allocated to objects created in the future processing. ...
This will increase the performance of allocation of memory to newer objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String can not be used by two threads simultaneously. String once assigned can not be changed. StringBuffer is mutable
means one can change the value of the object . ... StringBuffer has the same methods as the StringBuilder , but each
method in StringBuffer is synchronized that is StringBuffer is thread safe .


What is Singleton class?
In object-oriented programming, a singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class)
at a time. After first time, if we try to instantiate the Singleton class, the new variable also points to the first
instance created.



What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization and Deserialization in Java. Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of
bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams. The reverse process of creating
object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization. ... java.io.serializable.


when to use transient variable in java?
The rule is, when a variable is marked as transient, its object won't be serialized during serialization.
A transient variable is a variable that may not be serialized. You use the transient keyword to indicate to the Java
virtual machine that the indicated variable is not part of the persistent state of the object.


Difference between while and do..while loop?
Only difference between these two loops is that, in while loops, test expression is checked at first but,
in do...while loop code is executed at first then the condition is checked. So, the code are executed at least
once in do...while loops.

What is Enum?
A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants. More precisely, a Java enum type is a
special kind of Java class. An enum can contain constants, methods etc. Java enums were added in Java 5.

What is Iterator?
An iterator over a Collection. Iterator takes the place of Enumeration in the Java collections framework.
Iterators differ from Enumerations in two ways: Iterators allow the caller to remove elements from the underlying
collection during the iteration with well-defined semantics. Method names have been improved.


Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
In that case, int , is 2 bytes. However, implementations are free to go beyond that minimum, as you will see
that many modern compilers make int 32-bit (which also means 4 bytes pretty ubiquitously). The reason your book says
2 bytes is most probably because it's old

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Were String not immutable, a connection or file would be changed and lead to serious security threat. Mutable
strings could cause security problem in Reflection too, as the parameters are strings. Efficiency The hashcode of
string is frequently used in Java. For example, in a HashMap.


What is constructor chaining in Java?
Were String not immutable, a connection or file would be changed and lead to serious security threat.
Mutable strings could cause security problem in Reflection too, as the parameters are strings. Efficiency The
hashcode of string is frequently used in Java. For example, in a HashMap.


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Java Memory Management, with its built-in garbage collection, is one of the language's finest achievements.
It allows developers to create new objects without worrying explicitly about memory allocation and deallocation,
because the garbage collector automatically reclaims memory for reuse.


What is JIT stands for?
JIT stands for Just In time compilation and JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine. JVM is a virtual machine used in
Java programming platform to execute or run Java programs. Main advantage of JVM is that, it makes Java platform
independent by executing byte codes.


Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Garbage Collection. Garbage collection is the process of freeing space in the heap or the nursery for allocation
of new objects. This section describes the garbage collection in the JRockit JVM.


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
The memory that is used by allocated objects on the managed heap surpasses an acceptable threshold. This threshold
is continuously adjusted as the process runs. The GC.Collect method is called. In almost all cases, you do not have to
call this method, because the garbage collector runs continuously

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Difference between Java Heap Space and Stack Memory. ... Whenever an object is created, it's always stored in the
Heap space and stack memory contains the reference to it. Stack memory only contains local primitive variables and
reference variables to objects in heap space

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
The code can be written against known interfaces, but the actual classes to be used can be instantiated using
reflection from configuration files. Java Reflection is quite powerful and can be very useful. ... It is also
possible to instantiate new objects, invoke methods and get/set field values using reflection.


what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. Thread is basically a lightweight
sub-process, a smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to achieve multitasking.


What is the use of synchronization in Java?
1. Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple
threads in Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which
requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
NOTE: While frameworks generally refer to broad software development platforms, the term can also be used to
describe a specific framework within a larger programming environment. For example, multiple Java frameworks,
such as Spring, ZK, and the Java Collections Framework (JCF) can be used to create Java programs

What are the testing Framework available in java?
What is a Test Framework? Before diving into the most common types of frameworks and their benefits,
let's clarify what a test automation framework actually is. A testing framework is a set of guidelines or
rules used for creating and designing test cases.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Major difference in TestNG and JUnit test frameworks is their scope. I suggest to use TestNG as core unit
test framework for Java project, because TestNG is more advance in parameterize testing, dependency testing
and suite testing (Grouping concept). TestNG is meant for high-level testing and complex integration test.


What are the dependencies for this project?
Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks. Tasks may have multiple
preceding tasks and multiple succeeding tasks. The most common dependency relationship is a finish-to-start
relationship. ... Project Insight, project management software, supports all four dependency relationships.


what is dependency injection in java?
A framework class, usually called the dependency container, could analyze the dependencies of this class.
With this analysis it is able to create an instance of the class and inject the objects into the defined dependencies,
via Java reflection. ... If dependency injection is used, a Java class can be tested in isolation

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime. private ,
final and static methods and variables use static binding and are bonded by compiler while virtual methods
are bonded during runtime based upon runtime object.









